# Checks and Balances

Checks and Balances allows you to easily track your expenses while you're out and on the go. With 
Checks and Balances, you can track multiple accounts or events, log your transactions, and customize 
your display, from how to sort your accounts and transactions to choosing the colors to display 
positive and negative balances with.

## Accounts

Accounts are the top level grouping of your transactions. They can be a direct association to any 
credit or checking account you may have (Note: there is no auto sync of information from your 
banking institutes; transactions must be inserted manually) or general categories, such as "Party 
Planning" or "Christmas Shopping". You are free to use accounts in whichever manner best fits your 
needs to sort through and track your day-to-day expenses.

### Transactions

Transactions are stored underneath an account and represent your day to day purchases/expenses. While 
you are out and make purchases, add it as a transaction to keep track of your spending.

Transactions can be added as both positive and negative numbers allowing you to track deposits and 
withdrawals. You can use this feature however works best for you.

When logging a transaction, you can log the amount spent, the location or the purchase, a short 
description of the expense, the date of the purchase and a collection of tags (keywords to describe 
the type of purchase).

### Settings

There are several general application settings that you can set in the application according to 
your preferences
  * **Theme**: choose between light or dark theme
  * **Sort Order**: Choose to sort Accounts by Name or Balance. Choose to sort Transactions by Date,
  Location, Amount, or Description
  * **Color**: Select a color to use for Positive or Negative balances. You can select a different 
  set of colors to use at an Account level and at the Transaction level.

### Actions

Each account has its own settings menu which will allow you to edit or archive. Editing an Account 
will allow you to edit the name, description and a starting balance. Archiving an Account will archive 
not only the account, but all transactions currently stored within that Account.

Similarly, each transaction also has its own settings menu, allowing you to edit, archive, or delete.
Similar to accounts, editing a transaction will allow you to edit any field that was set when creating 
the transaction. Archiving a transaction will "soft delete" it; making it invisible, removing it from 
the total balance in the account, but having it still be present in the database for future enhancements 
that can make use of historical data. Deleting a transaction will permanently delete the entry, both 
from the interface and the underlying database.

Archive All Transactions is a setting available when tapping in to an Account. It is a quick action 
that will let you archive all existing transactions rather than needing to go through the settings 
menu for each individual transaction.

Manage Tags is an action that will let you view and manage all tags that you have ever created. This 
screen will give you an overview of all your tags (perhaps there was a typo, or two similarly named 
tags for the same type of transaction). You will see how many transactions are currently associated 
with each tag and will have the ability to delete any tags that you no longer want.
